My individual reflection for week 8:
This week, we made the final improvements to get a ready-made app and on Wednesday we had our presentation. In the presentation, we tried to explain about the different functionality of the application by running the app, which age groups the app is for and what values ​​for stakeholders. I think the presentation went very well. The examiner was satisfied and therefore we as a group were satisfied. We could definitely improve some points in our presentation, but still I personally think that our group has worked hard to get as good an app as possible, especially in recent weeks, and we succeeded. I just want to say that this idea on our app was very successful because it taught us both about how environmentally friendly we can be and how to think about the upcoming app projects.
 
1) What do I want to learn or understand better?
(A)When we started using ed different programs for the application (Android Studio, Gitkraken for the version control and Trello for the scrum boards) I was a bit stunned, because it takes me some time until I get used to new programs, when I want to know everything about them and be able to use them properly. One thing I have learned is to know the different programs we used and became more comfortable using them. Another thing I have learned is that I became better at handling stressful situations and doing one task/story at a time and not mixing many tasks/stories at the same time, this makes the work easier to work with. I have absolutely understood many important programming principles that can be used in Android Studio and my programming ability has improved. I must also mention that my writing ability has improved, because it was a long time since I wrote long texts.
(B)As I mentioned earlier, I have a hard time getting used to new programs because I am curious to know everything about the programs. Therefore, I am willing to delve into these three programs that we used and learn more about them as I may be able to work on a project with them in my future projects in the future. It should be great if I know everything about them so I can help others to be able to use the programs in a smart way
(A-->B)One thing that can help me improve my knowledge is that I will spend more time knowing everything possible about Android Studio, Gitkraken and Trello to benefit from in the future. In addition, I can have a more structured way of working with, for example, when it comes to tasks / stories. Maybe divide them into small tasks/stories to facilitate the work.
 
 
2)How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
(A)the members of our group had a good relationship and communication with each other. Everyone had different skills, but everyone was helped in every possible way. A fantastic thing that I learned from the group members is to give generously, to help from the whole heart. Even though everyone was busy with their parts, we still helped each other for years. I also learned to help those in need even when I was busy. Helping each other strengthened the relationship between us in the group and this made everyone in the group comfortable with each other.
 (B)for the upcoming projects, I will continue to help the other members of the group. This increases my self-confidence and breaks down the boundaries between the other group members.
(A-->B)For the upcoming projects, I say to find possible ways to help the others in the group. It could be through Zoom meetings, phone calls or meet them at school.
 
 
3) What is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum?
(A)as mentioned earlier, I tried in every possible way to be able to help my group. I think I have succeeded in contributing positively to a better working environment. I have been able to participate in all the meetings we have had, and have been able to participate in the various proposals and discussions to achieve the best results. I want to say that I actually did my best to be able to help and achieve the best results.
(B)I may need some improvements to be able to participate more in discussions regarding my opinions. I think I can take more initiative by contributing more suggestions and tips for improvement.
(A-->B)for more improvements, I can definitely participate with more ideas for next time. Maybe I can think in a smarter way and divide the problems into small parts so each solves one problem at a time (in terms of stories / tasks)
 
 
 
 
4) What is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?
(A)That said in earlier reflections, I was with Group A(me, Alexis and Smedra) who fixed the database and notification system. I thought we did a great and effective job that the app can benefit from. The collaboration in group A was fantastically good. We were able to solve the various problems and deliver two fantastic functionalities that have a huge benefit in the app. I actually worked out and did my best to deliver a good and useful thing. I must not forget that I helped a lot with finding good tips and translating them into different languages.This week, we focused on preparing a great presentation until Wednesday. I helped my group write the presentation and be able to participate in it, and as I said before, the presentation went well.
(B)for better deliveries, I want to learn to be more stress-resistant, more structured and meet the deadline
(A-->B)what I think is good is to have a deadline for each task / story so we as group members can avoid stress.
 
I just want to say that this project taught me to work in an agile way and learn from my mistakes and the help of others. It has been a challenge for me to be able to deliver a useful app as possible. I learned many things, not only to become better at coding and managing new programs, but also to become better as a group member. I have learned to be stress-resistant and structured.I want to thank my wonderful group and this wonderful course that taught me a lot. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
































































































































































































