My individual reflection for week 7:
This week has been the most stressful week so far, because in the last meeting we had with our supervisor and the examiner we had received negative criticism that we should manage one story at a time and not just start with new functionalities/stories every time. I understand why they were negatively critical of our project, because we had not really shown everything we did. group A i.e. me, Smedra and Alexis didn't show the database and notification system which was already done, because group B (Endrit, Cezary and Mohammed) had to run the program instead and showed what they had done. Group A and group B should actually manage their jobs together before the meeting on Monday, it might have looked better. But no problem, sometimes it's good with criticism. This made us work extra hard to get a finished work when the week is over and I can say that it went very well and I’m very happy for the cooperation. 
1) What do I want to learn or understand better?
(A)I just want to point out that I will not be able to upload any code in Github because the notification system I coded I sent directly to Alexis when I finished it so he could manage it to the database (this was a long time ago, maybe two weeks ago). Me, Smedra and Alexis had 3 meetings during this week, where we met at school. Those meetings were very effective as we fixed some things in connection with the database and notification system. In addition, Me and Smedra checked different tips about the different categories that we should have in the app(like transport, household,social life…). We made a table in a dokument where we wrote the tips we found in English and then translated them into Swedish, Arabic and Syriac. Then the others in the group had to translate the tips into their own language. It actually took longer than we expected, almost 2-3 days in total. Then Mohammed had to move all the tips to the database so we have them saved there.
This week was as I said effective for the whole group and for me personally. Our group had some effective serious meetings where we discussed how things should be improved. I have learned how to replace a negative critique with hard work to achieve the goal and how to be as effective as possible in a short time. I have learned how to tolerate stress and how to think positively despite all the criticism. In addition, I have learned how to handle Android studio in a simpler and smoother way. I became better at programming in Android studio and also being able to solve the various bugs / problems we had encountered. 
I obviously got help from the other group members and I helped back and in this way our group became like a family. When we just started with the work, everyone was at different levels of knowledge, but with all the help we got from each other in the group, we became much better at fixing things. 
 
I expect from our group to make a fantastic presentation on Tuesday
A-->B) We have divided the presentation into all the members of the group so that each member knows what he / she is going to present about and I expect everything to go well.
 
2)How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
I help the other members in the group by sharing the knowledge I have and not skimping on what I am good at! Of course, everyone in the group has different levels of knowledge, but you should definitely share and not skimp on information. The others in the group also helped me a lot with things I was less good at and I learned from their help. They say that “one hand can not clap itself!” that's all right! had we not helped and received help from each other, we would not have been able to get far with the work so the cooperation in the group is needed. That is why it is called a group so that everyone can participate in the work and help each other to reach the goal.
 
3) What is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum?
I have done everything that I have set out to do. I was already done with the notification system but I helped Alexis and Smedra with things like solving different bugs in the code and with changing design for the application. We helped each other in the group and that was so good and helpful. 
 
4) What is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?
That said, I was with Group A who fixed the database and notification system. I thought we did a great and effective job that the app can benefit from. The collaboration in group A was fantastically good. We were able to solve the various problems and deliver two fantastic functionalities that have a huge benefit in the app. I actually worked out and did my best to deliver a good and useful thing. I must not forget that I helped a lot with finding good tips and translating them into different languages. 
 
I just want to say that this project taught me to work in an agile way and learn from my mistakes and the help of others. It has been a challenge for me to be able to deliver a useful app as possible. I want to thank my wonderful group and this wonderful course that taught me a lot.


Firel Issa 
