Final individual reflection (week 8)



About the project:
We put the final touches on the application and we are satisified with the result, we also prepared and preseted it to our fellow schoolmates and our teacher. 
We tried to focus on who the application is aimed for and what benifits investors can expect. I think the presentation went pretty well, I think it was more important
to focus more on the values the application rather going in depth on the specific code. I think it's very important to begin and try to better the future for the coming 
generations and this (the project) is a good way to start an engineers path to that, this has made it clear that someone has to begin and it can be everyone that could help out 
in any way they can. So I am very thankful that we chose this goal to focus on and shape our project around. 

My experience working on the project:
I have stated in priour reflections that this project has tuaght me alot on how to approach a project in the future. At the start we had some ideas on how to approach the project, 
we decided on what the application would contain (Tips to help someone reduce their Co2 emissions) and some general design ideas on how the application itself would look like, but 
when reflecting now I think that was not enough. I think we needed to map the weeks we had to work on the project a bit more clear and think two weeks ahead instead of only one. 
We knew that we would use android studios to make the app and we started early to use it to get more familiar with it which was very good thinking on our part. But after we had 
layed the basic design for the application I myself took a bit of a backseet, I was kind of lost on what was required of me and how to do it, I should have taken the inisitve 
myself and not wait for someone to tell me what to do. I also relized that i stressed at the end of the week so I decied to split my work thorughout the week to have less stress 
and it worked really well on the later weeks of the project. The best things that I have learned are, how to deal with stress and how you can minimize it, to have a better plan 
when starting on an a project, getting used to the new software that you are using and better teamcommunication and taking the intistive. All these lessons I think are great 
assets that I can takw with me on the next project that I don and even in my professional work. 

Some things that worked well that was predefined and thinks that we had to do, were the scrumboard how we had to talk about the deliveries and and the reflections each week that we 
had to do, they really make you think on what went well and what could have gone better, you reflect and try to improve yourself with each week. 



What do I want to learn or understand better?
After a couple of reflections I think that my understanding of good knowledge has browdend a bit, before I thought that i needed to learn how to code and implement things 
in the most efficent way and the easiest way to do it in, but when reflecting I think that the best thing to learn for someone like me is the process that I have to use to get 
the knowldge to code better or be a better engineer. I have learned alot on how to make a good routine and how to plan ahead and how to deal with setbacks, this is very valuable 
knowldge that I want to learn much more about. I want to be an efficent engineer that knows how to handle stress, how to plan ahead and how to be more effective with me teammates. 
I want to expand this and learn even more. 

How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
This I think I have had a good idea about since the first reflection, I need to set a good relationship with others and to talk about what we have learned by ourselves to share 
knowldge with eachtgohers, we go through what we had problems with and learn from eachothers, becuase if I had a problem there is a good chance that someone else in the group 
has the same problem or faced a similar one. I also think this is very important because even if you have not encountered this problem before you can do that in the future. Having 
regualr meeting discussing thses things can be very good for everyone and that everyone can learn alot. 

What is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum?
I think that I have been very vocal about my ideas most of the times and still listend to what the others had to say. When we as a team decide on a story to prioritize I follow 
through and help with the planning and the executing of that plan. I also think that the regular meetings help us stay on the same page and be more productive. As to my personal 
contribution to the team's use of scrum as i have mentioned before I try to be very vocal but also listen to what direction the team want to take.  I have helped with the design 
with the layout of the application and the slide system as well as the langauge function that we use in the application. 

What is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?
Now that we are done with the application I can list everyhitng that I programmed into the application, I helped lay out the the general layout of the application. I have programmed 
the slide system and how it looks, I have also programmed the langauge function that is used to change the langauge for the application, I also made the sources page where I
thought it neccesary for the user to see where we got the information that we use and if they want to read on our tips thet only need to press the link that I put in. I also 
implemented the english, swedish and arabic tips for all the topics into the app. I have also fixed some bugs like the bug where the text would only show in allcaps among other 
things. 

Final thoughts and preparation for the final report:

As I have mentioned througout this reflection and the last weeks reflection is that I really appriciate the things that I have learned from this course that I dind't know that I 
would learn. I would even suggest that this course should be earlier in our educatin due to it's importance. The things that I have learned with every week weill help me in my 
professional life as well as help me with the rest of my school time. The only thing that is left is to write the final report and we have decied to do that after monday because 
most of us have an exam on monday 
