Individual reflection week7:
So this is the last week of working on the project and it has been a bit stressful but overall I am happy with the work that I have put into the project, I am also very happpy
with my timemanagment. But as I predicted this week would be a bit stressfull on all of us because of the nature of the project and the way we had planned everything. As i wrote 
in my last reflection we were pretty done with most of the programming and with the skeleton code of the program which left us with implementing the required tips and their tra-
nslations. 

What do I want to learn or understand better?

What is the current situation? (A)
This week I started wiht implementin the tips in english and mapping them out so the translations would be easier, I got the tips from Smedra and Firel and I jsut implemented them 
and mapped them out. After I did that I pushed the code so everyone could implement the other langauges. There was some other stuff that I did such as fix some bugs like a bug 
where the text shown in the slide system was in all CAPS. I worked out a way to fix it and made the text look better. I added some icons to the slide view and I think the biggest 
thing that I did was that I added a soruces page so that the user could check our sources if they want to read more about a certain aspect of the tips or just being curious on 
where we got the information. We are almost done with the whole app and some few adjusments are needed wich we can work on later before we do the presentation. We have had daily 
meeting and sometimes multiple ones a day to really get on board and know what the others in the group is working on. I think I am very satisfied on my progression through this 
course and how much I have learned, not only am I much better at programming and finding bugs and resolving them and how to search for a problem on the internet and what and how to 
ask my fellow group members for help, but also how the process of making such a project and how to best work on it. I faced alot of problems through out the journy these past weeks
where I sometimes felt lost on what was required of me and what I had to do, and some timemanegment on my own but I think that these past weeks I have learned alot on how to work 
in a team environment and by implementing them lately I have felt the benefits of knowing them. There is not that much stress and less a feeling of "what to do now!". So I am very
happy that I took this course because all of these things will help me in my personal life and professional one too. 


What I want the situation to be? (B)
Next week I want us to have a great presentation and be done with the application


Plan to reduce the gap (A->B):
We the group have planned out on how to divide the work required for the presentation so it should run smoothly and well. We have some minor adjusments on the applications and 
everyone knows what they are supposed to do. 


How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
I think that it is very important to ask for help and get guided if you face any issues or somethings that you do not understand. So in meetings or just ask privatly is a good 
way to learn. Another really good way to help other learn and develop is to talk about and discuss on things that you had problems with and how you best resolved them so that the 
rest of the group can learn from your mistakes. 
What is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum? 
I have done the work that i set out do the last week this week and I have done it with some time to spare to help the others with things they needed helo with. I also got alot 
of help from them. I have done what we have set out to do. 

What is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?
 I worked out a way to fix it and made the text look better. I added some icons to the slide view and I think the biggest 
thing that I did was that I added a soruces page so that the user could check our sources if they want to read more about a certain aspect of the tips or just being curious on 
where we got the information.

Some final thoughts on my time working in the project in an agile way:
My time on the project didnt go smoothly the whole time, but I think that made it possible for me and the rest of the team to learn from the mistakes that we did and become 
better at working in an agile way. I appricate that this course exists and I think that we should have had it earlier. 


