My final individual reflection for week 8

---------------------------------------------

About the project:
We have now finished our application and had our presentations. I feel the presentation went very good since we tried to lay focus on the value for the users and 
for the stakeholders. We could of course have focused more on the actual applications, but our interpretation of the guidelines were that the focus didn’t lie on 
that aspect, but rather on the former (the values), which according to me makes a lot of sense since that has been an integral part of the project. 

We didn’t have a supervision meeting last week so I’m not sure on how our changes in approaching our stories and deliverables has been met, but I’m optimistic 
that they would have been positive since we ourselves have seen a positive change on how we define our stories and how our deliverables tie to the user. 

Before I go more in depth about the specific questions about this week, I would like to write a little bit about how the project as a whole has gone.

This project was something that we, or at least I, consider as something new and extremely interesting. I’ve mentioned earlier that I have a little experience 
in the agile methodology after working in DB Schenker, but as basically an intern there, I never got to go as much in depth as an active part in it (the experience 
was more like an observer at my job). Getting to be the Scrum master posed even further challenges other than simply being part of it as it required developing 
even further experiences and knowledge that I didn’t have earlier. 

In the beginning, we as a group were a bit slow - and I’ll put this down to inexperience. After deciding on what we wanted to develop, we pretty much spent the 
whole first week, and some, on initial designs. In hindsight this was very ineffective as this, while of course important, wasn’t as critical as actually 
starting on the project. As long as we had a good basis for our project, new designs could be implemented quite effortlessly. I blame myself a bit for this 
ineffectiveness because as Scrum master, I should have pushed for earlier (or att least well within the deadlines) decisions but I took this as a lesson heading 
forward.

The following weeks were steadily improving, both by learning from mistakes and gaining experiences but also because of the supervision meetings which were of 
great importance to us and which we greatly appreciated. I believe that without these meetings, we would be stuck in the same mindset we’ve had earlier and not 
developing further. We will discuss these areas a lot more in the final report as I feel I’m heading into territory which is best suited for the group as a whole 
to discuss. Now to the specific questions.

---------------------------------------------

What do I want to learn or understand better?
I know that the focus isn’t technological tools, but I would like to point out that it’s an aspect I would really like to continue developing. For this project 
we’ve used GitKraken for the version control and Trello for the scrum boards and I’ve gained knowledge in both these projects and feel comfortable working in 
them (A). However, the ceiling for at least Git is quite high and there is a lot of room to improve in that area and I would really like to gain even more 
experience and be very proficient in that (B). This gain of knowledge (A->B) only comes by implementing the use of Git in everyone of my developing projects 
having forward, and perhaps thinking about using the Git CLI (command line) rather than an interface (GitKraken) since while it’s probably a lot tougher and 
the learning curve is steeper, the possibilities and control the user has seems a lot larger, which in the long term will only be beneficial.

Other than technological tools, another thing I have to learn or understand better (both as a Scrum member and a Scrum master) is how to approach the solving 
of tasks and understand the definitions of different aspects better. I’ve continuously mentioned that we struggled a bit with defining the stories and how we 
work with deliverables and the last few weeks have gotten a lot better in that area and have a good understanding on how to define the stories as to deliver 
something of value to the user with every task (A). This can, of course, be improved upon greatly where I don’t need several weeks and supervision in order 
to correctly define the stories, and I’d rather like these things to come naturally to me (B). Maybe a bit repetitive, but again this is an issue that gets 
solved with more experience (A->B). This was as mentioned a completely new way of working for me, so while I struggled in the beginning, the knowledge I’ve 
gotten will carry on to the next project and so on.

---------------------------------------------

How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
As I mentioned in pretty much all of my earlier individual reflections, the approach to this specific question hasn’t changed too much (A). That might be because 
we as a project group are also friends and feel comfortable with each other, but we have no issues with asking for help when we feel we don’t understand something, 
and all members are there for each other's disposal and are willing to help one another. When I find something that might be of interest to the rest of the group, 
or something I feel will make things easier for us etc, I make sure to let the group know about this specific thing, whether it be a technology, an idea or an 
approach. So simply by being there for the group during discussion, but also outside of “working hours”, by trying to help through texts in group chats in case 
I’m not available for a verbal discussion. 

This is probably the question that I feel has been working flawlessly and without issues for us, and I don’t really see any way to improve the situation (B) other 
than continuing to put work without prestige and understanding that when one members learns something and passes the information, the whole group benefits from it (A->B).

---------------------------------------------

What is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum?
By (A) regularly holding meetings where we discuss the current sprint we’re in, and reflect upon what we’ve been lacking in earlier sprints (with help from the 
supervision meetings) I feel my main contribution as a Scrum master has been to give everyone room for ideas and thoughts and allowing voices to be heard. Primarily 
allowing stories to be chosen out of preference, when needed I’ve also delegated stories (as the two largest/most critical, the slide-system and notification system). 
I’ve tried to continuously ask during meetings how a specific task is going and tried to get members to define whether or not it’s going forward and I feel it has 
worked better and better for each week.

This is an area which I feel can be improved for future projects, where the Scrum methodology is deeply ingrained and we intuitively know how to work during sprints 
(B). I also feel there’s room for improvement as a scrum master in future projects, where I perhaps even more decisively call for members to pick up pace, or the 
contrary, notice when one person is doing too much. By simply keeping constant and regular meetings where each person can talk about what they’re doing, how they’re 
doing, and whether or not they feel others are slacking or others are doing too much is a way to reduce this gap (A->B).

---------------------------------------------

What is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?
We’ve struggled a bit in this aspect earlier, as our deliveries weren’t user-focused. We’ve however changed our approach so that one deliverable gives something of 
visible value to the user (A). This week has mostly been finishing up in preparation for the presentation and I’ve also built the APK and uploaded results from 
GitInspector. I’ve also, together with all the members, prepared for the presentation and I tried to put a lot of focus on the value for the user and the shareholders. 
In general, I’ve tried to choose stories I’ve felt comfortable with but also stories which might have not been preferable, but which I’ve seen as an opportunity to 
learn something new as well.

I feel my approach towards the deliveries has been improved significantly since the start of the project, but I also have a clear view on how I want it to be in 
future (B). I want the stories to be well defined, where one task gives one “result” for the user, with the stories not being too big but rather very well specified 
for a certain functionality. I’d also like each story to have a deadline and a definition of done, which we didn’t implement until later in the project. All these 
improvements and changes would, in my opinion, make the deliveries a lot clearer and easier to handle (A->B).

---------------------------------------------

Final thoughts and preparation for the final report:
As a whole, I’m very satisfied with the project. I feel I’ve learnt a lot of new things, both regarding technology, but especially regarding methodology. This was a 
sort of new area for me and I’m happy with the knowledge I gained. There have also been struggles and difficulties but nothing we couldn’t manage and we will discuss 
these things more in depth in the final report.

The final report is the only thing left in this course and the deadline will be 5 PM this coming Friday. We feel that we have a lot to reflect upon and write in this 
final report, both positive and things we’ve learned, but also struggles we’ve faced during the project. We are well prepared for the report and I feel optimistic for it.

Endrit Karpuzi




