My personal reflections for week 7.


About the project:
We’ve pretty much finished the project by now and all that is left is a few minor tweaks, the presentation and the final report. 
After receiving some criticism about how we worked so far we’ve changed the structure around our stories and deliverables to better 
suit the way they’re expected.


My reflections:
I was initially a bit demotivated by the criticism we received but soon turned around to actually see that there were quite big 
issues in the structure we had been following and that the criticism was well deserved. We hadn’t delivered what was supposed to 
be delivered and my approach was a bit different from what was asked - i prefered to do a lot of the background work first and implement 
the smaller details in the end. For example I prefered to create the basis to put in all the languages first and later on implement the 
languages one by one. I now understand that it isn’t anything of value for the user being developed that way and that was one of the 
points of criticism.


What do I want to learn or understand better?
Excluding technological tools (which we’re supposed to exclude), a common theme for me regarding this question is that to develop as a 
team requires a lot more commitment than one might think. Especially as a scrum master, it’s quite easy to feel demotivated some times. 
The situation as of now (A) is that we have become quite a bit better at communicating and reaching out to each other but it can still 
be a bit better (B). In order to reach the level we want to (A->B) we have to become even better in communicating and telling each other 
when something feels off.

As the first time being a scrum master (ever, in any project) this has been a very good experience and has given me immense new knowledge.


How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
This question hasn’t really differed a lot from the different reflections. My approach has been sort of the same (A): I try to be available 
as often as I can, and I even take my time to try and help members when I’m at work (and have time of course). If I find something of relevant
and good value, I will try to pass on the knowledge to other members.

The goal for this specific question (B) would be to have a way of combining our collective knowledge and in a smooth way share our knowledge 
and experience. A way to reach this goal would be (A->B) to have “workshops” or time-slots where we focus mainly on raising things we’ve learned 
and asking technical questions to each other.


What is my contribution towards the team’s use of Scrum?
By being the scrum master I’ve had an approach which seems to have been working quite well during these weeks, so the answer might be a bit 
similar to the other reflections. I try to give everyone room to speak their mind, and try to get ideas out of every person. I also like to 
get everyone’s input before a change in design, application or structure is made - preferably unanimous, but at least by majority.


What is my contribution towards the team’s deliveries?
A lot of the criticism we received this week was tied to the deliveries. We didn’t have a clear plan or structure on how to deliver things and 
that has been a common issue. My feelings are that (A) we’ve sorted out most of these underlying issues by even further redefining our stories 
and having a clear plan on what to deliver, in which order, and how to deliver. We want to become even better at this, where the deliverables 
sort of come naturally (B) without having to restructure our board and stories too much.

The best way to reach this (A->B) is of course by gaining 
experience - which is one of the things we’ve done. The supervisions have helped us quite a bit in this regard as it’s quite easy to get lost in 
your own way of thinking - which isn’t the best strategy. In coming projects we will have to put the customer in focus quite a bit earlier and have 
visible deliveries that tie to the end-user more clearly. This has been one of my main issues during this project and I believe I have come quite a 
way in fixing this.


About next week:
Next week is the final week of the course: We won’t work more on the project except tying together a few loose ends on Monday. After that we will 
solely focus on the release which coincides with the presentation. We will finish the last things that are necessary for the course - such as the 
.apk-file and gitinspector and finally release the project. On Monday we will show our product in our presentation and the rest of this and next week 
will solely be focused on the final report, which we will have to put quite a lot of time in since it’s a big part of the grading.

I feel quite optimistic for the coming weeks and no matter the end result, I can proudly and honestly say I’ve learned extremely much.

Endrit Karpuzi
