Team reflection week7
Smedra Touma
 
The week started with the meeting with our supervisor Hannes, he and Håkan gave us much advice on how to develop our project. 
I can say that the meeting stressed me a bit but it was good that it gave us a push so we could work better and be finished with the app.

What do you want to learn or understand better?
This is the last individual reflection in writing, and this time i can say that my experience of Android studio got much better A .
I would also say I would learn better about how to be effective and productive from the beginning of the course, so I skip the stress and don’t
put all the pressure on the last week B . I mean I worked well but i would learn how to be better in communicating with my team members.
A->B  in the next project i would say that i will do my best to be as productive as i can to deliver and be effective so i can satisfy and the whole
team is happy that everything is going well.



How can I help someone else, or the entire team, to learn something new?
A.
Until now i have tried to give my best to help who needed help, but this week i was a little bit stressed so i worked actually hard to deliver as much as i can, 
me , Firel and Alexis had two physics meetings at Chalmers Lindholmen and there it was so much better to discuss different issues in our project and give each
other advice about how we can do the tasks better. We were productive and did well
B.
I would say that in the next project i would prefer to have more physics meetings at the campus or in bibliotek just to be sure how its going with each
team member because it feels more real when we have it in real life, in my opinion zoom it's not enough to feel the team work and to be productive.
A->B 
i would say that to have plan in the beginning of each course/project that says we should minimally have one physics meeting a week to get and give help to our 
group member and to work as a team


What is my contribution towards the team’s use of scrum?
A
I tried to be involved in the meeting and share my opinion as much as I could, I also was very strict by being one time and delivering on the deadline so my team could
have a better view and feel more comfortable. As a team member i tried to help each member in the group to be done in time even tho it didn’t work as we wanted but we
have at least have a discussion and tried to fix the problem.For example when alexis had to fix a bug in the notification, we had a physic meeting to with Firel to try
to solve it and be done with it. Sometimes things get too difficult but i'm trying to give the best for the group, even though i feel stressed sometimes but being positive
is the best thing i could do for my group.
B.
We should finish a bit earlier next time just to show the work we have done before the presentation and to feel less stressed. I've made mistakes and now I know about them
to try to avoid them for next time and try to learn from my mistakes.
A->B
We are working now hard and on we will be done on monday so we can start preparing the presentation, we will present the application as a group and when we finish 
i'm sure that it will feels much more better


What is my contribution toward the team’s deliveries?
A 
This week I delivered much teori, in that I mean that I delivered almost all the tips in green tips. Me and firel also worked on translation to different languages, 
English, Swedish, Arabic and syriac. When it came to the syriac language it was a little bit difficult because the language is a bit old and we had to create a font 
folder in Android Studio and implement the font style we wanted there. Me, Firel and Alexis did a really good job in notification and the database, me and firel worked 
on the notification and sent them to Alexis to connect it to the database. This week was the delivery high in my opinion.
B
I would like to say that the team delivery each week should be like this week, work hard and deliver the best we can. 
A->B
In the next project and for the next time we should have strict deadlines in the middle of the week to see how the work is going on with the group,
and this will make it easier for the group to see that every team member is actually working and delivering something.
Be more realist about which ability each member so the group can divide right part to right person.
