Individual reflection Week8
Smedra Touma

This is the last week, and the last reflection I write. Our application is finished and the presentation is done.We didn’t have any supervision this week, but we already
knew what to do and what to focus on. I want to add that the meeting with Hannes was really useful for our application, without those tips we wouldn't have developed through
this course and we would make the same mistake over and over again.
It feels good that we are done with everything now since everything became a bit harder in the end.The presentation went well and the focus of our presentation on the
stakeholder and the value for users.


What do you want or understand better?
A
We have worked on Android studio and gained knowledge in developing, Gitkraken and Trello were also a big part of this. As a group member i would say that learning how 
to be finish with each story/task and whenever i'm finish so i move on to the another, because this was the biggest problem i can say in our project
B 
I would say that Android studio was a really good program even though it was a hard program for my laptop but i would like to know all the features in this program,
and even in Gitkraken, because this will be so useful for the next projects.
To be finish with each task and move on to the another
A->B 
To have those to in my next projects to work on to improve my self and be better
Divide the tasks in that way that we can be finished with each one and start working on a new one, that will help us to be more structural. 


How can I help someone else, or the entire team to learn something new?
This part has been so good, as I mentioned in my last reflections, so our group has already a very good relation and that made it much easier to communicate and ask each other,
or offer help for those who need help. We helped each other in different ways, somebody understands best when we meet in real life, and others who live far away so they prefer
to meet on zoom and we also had our group chat on Messenger and that was the biggest help for us all. 


What is my contribution toward the team’s use of scrum?
A
I was almost always available for meetings to share my opinion in different subjects. I tried to do my best to help my group and to make them feel free to ask anything, 
I tried also to be active in our meeting to deliver the best I can. 
B
In this part i think i should improve myself better for the next projects 
A->B 
to be more productive to be on time for the next project since we stressed a bit last time but, i will also try to avoid the mistakes i’ve done so the work could be more
clear and we have more time to work maybe more on the design and fix the bugs.


What is my contribution toward the team’s deliveries?
A
This week we have been focusing on doing the presentation since it was the last thing to do, so i helped the team to write the presentation and participate in the presentation. 
I can finally say that we are done and my role was focusing on doing The notification system and the database with Firel and Alexis, i was also a big part of doing the tips
and translating them into the language that i can (English, Swedish,Arabic and Syriac) and put the sources i get the  information from. 
B
To structure the work better and deliver on time that will so we skip stress at the last minute.
A->B
To have a deadline for each story that will help the group to be ready on time, and feel more comfortable by working all the 8 weeks. 

This course was really interesting for me personally, it was kind of different to focus on and not only the “exam” like we do in the other courses.
Personally the Agile idea was very new for me since i didn’t have it in other courses that’s why everything went slow for me but it didn’t take that 
long to understand better and do my best as a group member. As i mentioned in the Peer assignment i had much problem with my personally laptop and
i had to switch to another “simpler” laptop and i can say that that effect my work, but i can say that i tried to help my group members, i was also
available for a real meeting with Firel and Alexis and that made it easy to communicate and help each other more. 
In conclusion I can say that I learned from my mistakes to be better and all the supersions that we had and the tips from Hannes and Håkan.
I also learn a lot of new things and now it’s only the Final report left to do.

